---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Step 2: Configure your Dataset

After Completing the step 1, you should see the Edit Dataset dialog which will allow you to configure and edit the details for the dataset you just added. The four tabs we will look at for configuring a dataset are: Overview, Schema, Users, and Rules.If you are not planning to invite other users to your workspace, then the Overview page is probably the only section you need to complete.

Click **Save** continue and proceed to [**Step 3**](#step-3-viewing-your-data)

(The dialog can be accessed again any time by clicking the **Edit** icon of the dataset you are currently active on, in case you close it before you are finished or want to make a change.)

### Overview

In the dataset Overview you can update the name, description, and tags for your dataset. This information is used to help other users find this dataset and it’s contents.

### Schema

The Schema section allows you to configure how the dataset is viewed by users with the ability to change the following:

- Icons next to fields names allow creating Dataview Links (which are similar to database joins) and External Links which allow you to link to URLs based on the data in the fields.
- Catalog Name is the visible name users will see for fields and tables.
- Accessibility Controls are the following:

  - Access can be turned on/off completely for a field with this slider
  - Confidentiality - This drop down allows you, the data owner, to specify a confidentiality level for each field. Users with higher values directly or indirectly assigned are able to see the value.
  - Sensitivity - This drop down allows you, the data owner, to specify a sensitivity level for each field. Users with higher values directly or indirectly assigned are able to see the field.
  - Identity - - This drop down allows you, the data owner, to specify an identity level for each field. Users with higher values directly or indirectly assigned are able to see the field.

- renaming tables and fields to have more user friendly names where necessary.
- The trashcan icon allows a table (aka datafile) within the dataset to be removed from view within the system; however, it does not change the underlying table and dataset.

The Schema section allows you to configure the following:

- accessability control, determining if any specific tables or fields should be hidden/blocked.
- renaming tables and fields to have more user friendly names where necessary.
- Dataset level access rating for tables and fields can be set to have a more in depth control over who can see what information in your dataset. ([ More details about Access Ratings ](#access-rating-explained))

### Users

The User section allows you to modify access your dataset Users must be previously

Data Owners are the users with the privilege to modify all aspects of the dataset. All users in this category will have full access to the dataset and the ability to modify the access to the dataset.

Data Users is the section where users with limited rights are created and managed. Each user added in this section can have specific values for Confidentiality, Sentitivity, and Identity. When assigned a value users can see any element with a rating less than or equal to the users assigned value.

Teams allow users to be grouped and access levels to be assigned based on the group.

### Rules

The rules sections allows you to create rules that can mask specific fields in your dataset's tables. Rules control how data is seen by users when their specific grants are less than the values necessary to see specific fields. ([ more details on rules ](#rule-policies-explained))
