---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Self Host Edge server (local)

Datafi Edge servers are containerized, It can be run anywhere a docker container can run. If you don't have a docker environment, you can start by installing docker in your server.

Complete the following steps to setup a local Edge Server.

1. Install Docker Desktop and complete the setup steps (ref: <a href="https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop" target="_blank">https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop</a> )
2. Verify Docker has been setup by running the following and confirm **Hello from Docker!** reply:
   ```
   docker run hello-world
   ```
3. Open the terminal and pull the latest edge-server image then run the Edge Server container with the following commands:

   ```
   docker pull datafi/es:latest
   docker run --rm -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -p 50051:50051 datafi/es:latest
   ```

4. now open a new terminal and run

   ```sh
    # download the cli from https://github.com/datafilabs/datafi-cli/releases
    curl -fsSL https://github.com/datafilabs/datafi-cli/releases/download/v1.0.0/dfcli-linux -o dfcli
    # allow executing the cli
    sudo chmod +x ./dfcli
    # make sure the version is printed
    ./dfcli --version
   ```

   this should print out version number of Datafi CLI eg: `dfcli version 1.0`

5. Now using datafi-cli check if the datasource is accessible from the edge server locally running.

   ```bash
   # check if the credentials are valid, and the db is reachable.
   ./dfcli dataset --type mssql --dbname WideWorldImporters --password "pass" --port 1433 --server datafi-mssql.database.windows.net --username user check
   ```

   This `./dfcli dataset check` command will ping the datasource through the locally running edge server and make sure the connection from edge server to the db is working fine.

   Now generate `KEY` value, which should be used while running the edge server in the environment variable. by using `./dfcli dataset `

   ```bash
   # generate KEY to be used in the environment variable for the edge server container.
   ./dfcli dataset --type mssql --dbname WideWorldImporters --password "pass" --port 1433 --server datafi-mssql.database.windows.net --username user --name "MSSQL" --endpoint "datafi.acme.com" --pointOfContact yourname@domain.com add

   ```

   this command will generate a `key.txt` file which will contain the `KEY` value. You will also get a URL which you can use to add the edge-server to your Datafi workspace. It might take few minutes to run this command.

   ```bash
    URL to register: https://home.datafi.us/datasets/add/0ZyN9zdXIoVJBqcgk
    Config file saved to ./config.yaml
    Key file saved to ./key.txt
   ```

   Note: you can use help command `./dfcli -h` to access CLI documentation.

6. Use the link above (eg: https://home.datafi.us/datasets/add/0ZyN9zdXIoVJBqcgk) to connect the edge-server to your Datafi workspace. Before clicking on the link, make sure you have already [signed up for a Free Datafi Account](https://home.datafi.us/register) and is currently logged in.

7. Now, stop the container running in the first terminal. and re-run with the `KEY` environment variable generated in the previous step.

   ```bash
   # in the first terminal use CTRL+C to stop the current running container, and re-run
   docker run --rm -p 80:80 -p 443:443 -p 50051:50051 -e KEY=$(cat ./key.txt)  datafi/es:latest
   ```

## Step 2: Configure your Dataset

After Completing the step 1, you should see the Edit Dataset dialog which will allow you to configure and edit the details for the dataset you just added. The four tabs we will look at for configuring a dataset are: Overview, Schema, Users, and Rules.If you are not planning to invite other users to your workspace, then the Overview page is probably the only section you need to complete.

Click **Save** continue and proceed to [**Step 3**](#step-3-viewing-your-data)

(The dialog can be accessed again any time by clicking the **Edit** icon of the dataset you are currently active on, in case you close it before you are finished or want to make a change.)

### Overview

In the dataset Overview you can update the name, description, and tags for your dataset. This information is used to help other users find this dataset and it’s contents.

### Schema

The Schema section allows you to configure how the dataset is viewed by users with the ability to change the following:

- Icons next to fields names allow creating Dataview Links (which are similar to database joins) and External Links which allow you to link to URLs based on the data in the fields.
- Catalog Name is the visible name users will see for fields and tables.
- Accessibility Controls are the following:

  - Access can be turned on/off completely for a field with this slider
  - Confidentiality - This drop down allows you, the data owner, to specify a confidentiality level for each field. Users with higher values directly or indirectly assigned are able to see the value.
  - Sensitivity - This drop down allows you, the data owner, to specify a sensitivity level for each field. Users with higher values directly or indirectly assigned are able to see the field.
  - Identity - - This drop down allows you, the data owner, to specify an identity level for each field. Users with higher values directly or indirectly assigned are able to see the field.

- renaming tables and fields to have more user friendly names where necessary.
- The trashcan icon allows a table (aka datafile) within the dataset to be removed from view within the system; however, it does not change the underlying table and dataset.

The Schema section allows you to configure the following:

- accessability control, determining if any specific tables or fields should be hidden/blocked.
- renaming tables and fields to have more user friendly names where necessary.
- Dataset level access rating for tables and fields can be set to have a more in depth control over who can see what information in your dataset. ([ More details about Access Ratings ](#access-rating-explained))

### Users

The User section allows you to modify access your dataset Users must be previously

Data Owners are the users with the privilege to modify all aspects of the dataset. All users in this category will have full access to the dataset and the ability to modify the access to the dataset.

Data Users is the section where users with limited rights are created and managed. Each user added in this section can have specific values for Confidentiality, Sentitivity, and Identity. When assigned a value users can see any element with a rating less than or equal to the users assigned value.

Teams allow users to be grouped and access levels to be assigned based on the group.

### Rules

The rules sections allows you to create rules that can mask specific fields in your dataset's tables. Rules control how data is seen by users when their specific grants are less than the values necessary to see specific fields. ([ more details on rules ](#rule-policies-explained))

## Step 3: Viewing your data

On the [Dataview](https://dataficloud.com/dataview) page you will be able to see a list of datasource that you have access to on the left side of you screen. Choosing a table from one of them will open the contents of that dataset that your [Access Rating](#access-rating-explained) permits, and mask fields according to any rules applied to that dataset.
